cyclists are calling for a review of the
land transport authorities foldable
bicycle scheme introduced back in 2009
the scheme currently has a peak hour
restriction and allows only one folding
bike on each bus at any one time again
evylyn sure with this report forty
two-year-old max LOM is not your average
school leader every week the
vice-principal of the School of Science
and Technology travels to work on his
trusty folding bike I think it is a very
viable alternate do I own a car depend
on the weather becomes a choice that I'm
able to exercise whether I wish to work
out a little bit of sweat today and in
cycle 2 school or the weather is very
favorable cloudy is nice I can choose to
exercise and be conscious about the
environment as well and cycling to work
mr. Lam prides himself in being part of
a thriving community of professionals
and executives many of whom have adopted
these two wheels as a serious mode of
transport to work a typical route
involves cycling from home then boarding
a bus or train halfway and completing
the remaining journey to the office on
the bike the owner of this folding
bicycle shop says 10% of her customers
adopt such a lifestyle this is one of
the smallest folded sizes currently
allowed on buses and trains but the
folding bike community here tells me
that unlike cities like London or Taipei
where the cycling culture is much more
vibrant Singapore's foldable bike scheme
leaves much to be desired
on weekdays cyclists are only allowed to
board from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from
8 p.m. to the end of operating hours
leaving out the bulk of the working
crowd since large luggages and big prams
are already allowed in public transport
during peak hours we think that our
folding bites being a lot smaller than a
large luggage or a big pram should be
allowed as well because we'll probably
won't be adding to the current squeeze
and at any one time only one unit is
allowed to be on a bus some say it's an
inconvenience when a family wants to
have a cycling day out as only one
member is able to load his bicycle the
rest will have to wait their turn to
bought the next few buses now both mrs.
Xuan and mr. Lam have raised their
concerns to the LTA
at a transport focused group session
conducted by the National Climate Change
Secretariat for now this environmentally
friendly lifestyle will have to be
reduced to a weekly or leisurely affair